Hey guys, welcome back to the course.
Checking back in for a bonus lecture.
Why is this bonus?
Well, because some of you guys need to follow this and
some of you are a little bit farther ahead and you can skip this.
We're going to talk specifically about optimization,
and specifically, we're going to answer the question
of "Is your page ready, if you send traffic to it, to let customers
buy your product or service in a relatively easy way?"
Now, shocker.
If your site isn't ready from a functional sense, it can't
collect payment, then you're not going to obviously
be successful. It doesn't matter how
much traffic you send to your page,
obviously they can't pay you, therefore all of
your marketing efforts are going to be a waste.
Now, a little bit further than that, if your page
isn't optimized in at least a minimal regard,
you're also going to run into problems, you're going
to run into what I call the illusion of a failed campaign.
What I mean by that is, let's say you're building out
your marketing strategy, you picked your channels,
you get out there, and you start running them, and
people are responding in a positive way. They like what
you're saying, they like your marketing message,
they're clearly resonating with the way that you're
pitching to them, but then as soon as they get to
your website, nothing seems to happen.
Now, if that happened to you, you would just assume
that you misread the situation and that they don't
like what you are saying, or you're gathering
or collecting the wrong people.
Now, I call it an illusion because you might think that
you scored yourself a win and you learned something,
but in reality there's no way you could know whether
or not it's because your page makes no sense and
it just encourages people to leave, or you
used an ineffective marketing technique.
Now, if your site is already set up, and you've taken
sales, and you're reasonably confident that your
site makes sense, please skip this lecture.
Do not watch it.
I do not want to hear you complain about
me talking about things you already know.
This is just a quick pit stop for those of you out there
that want to make a quick audit of your website
to make sure that it is at least set up
in a way that you can be successful.
If your site is not set up in a way that, one, users can
understand, two, easily and in an effective way
conveys the benefits of your product or service,
and three, allows users to easily pay you,
your site is just going to be a dud.
So for our audit, we're going to go over those
three things. Can your users understand your site?
Can they figure out the benefits of your service
relatively quickly? And can they pay you?
All right.
Let's look at a website, as an example, that makes
sense. I'm sure you guys have heard of this one.
This in general makes sense. I see where I sign up,
I see what they are claiming it does,
I can scroll down and see what the features are and why
they are benefits, and if I want to learn more, that's great, it's
very simple. And again, areas where
I can go to the next step if I am interested.
Now, let's look at one that makes absolutely no sense.
Have you used this one before? Because it is just so weird.
Poker Coach 2.
Can anyone tell what this is?
I mean, I can kind of guess from
the name, but "Challenge PokerSnowie
now with live, real time advice."
Who is PokerSnowie? And "Get it now,"
what do I get and how is that 20% off?
What is that man at the bottom telling me?
I just want to leave, because I'm confused.
Now, which one of those two
are you? Most likely, you're somewhere in the middle,
but you can still stand to improve.
Now, if you look like PokerSnowie,
well then, thank God you watch this lecture.
Now to get from PokerSnowie to Dropbox,
there's two things I want you to do.
They're quick and easy.
All right.
Grab a Word document,
piece of paper, or anything you can write
something down on, and in one sentence
- actually do this, I want you to do this -
write down what exactly your
product or service is and does.
Now, if I were selling an iPhone cover, I would say
"It's a rubber cover that protects your iPhone."
"It is a rubber cover and it protects your iPhone."
That's what that "does" is and what the "is" is.
All right.
Now that you have that done,
I want you to look at your home page
with that in mind. In two seconds, 2-3 seconds,
can you tell what exactly your page does?
Can you tell that it does
that sentence that you just wrote down? If users
cannot immediately tell what the point of the page is,
or at least what the general topic is, you're
always going to have people leave in droves.
Now, the second thing you can do is ask a friend,
literally anyone. Say, "Hey, look at my web page" and do
not tell them what it is, don't tell them what
it does, and then just ask them immediately,
"Can you tell what this page is or what it's for?"
If they can figure it out relatively easy, and they're
not giving you an answer that's completely wrong,
then good job, but if they can't, you really need to
work on your clutter and/or your organization.
You can actually use a tool.
You can check this one out.
Bonus tip: fivesecondtest.com,
that's a great website, it's free,
all you have to do is take a picture of your site, post
it online, and then in generally 30 minutes you'll
have people say what they think it does in five seconds.
Now, the number two thing we need to do in our audit
is check, does our page convey what the benefits
of our product or service is? In a short period of time,
can I see on the page why I should buy
this and how this is going to benefit me?
Now, it doesn't have to be the largest text in the world,
but you need to have something on the page to
convince them, you cannot just simply have a description of
what it is and that is it, they need some persuasion. Now, if I
was selling that iPhone case
we just talked about, and I just said "iPhone case,"
no one would buy from me. Even if I just said "iPhone
case" and I put a picture of a beautiful iPhone case,
people still will probably not buy from me, because
they still need to hear what exactly it is and how
it's going to cradle my iPhone like a newborn baby.
And the last thing we need to check
in our quick audit is, can they pay you?
If someone were happy, satisfied, you convinced
them that they are going to pay you money,
can they actually do it?
I mean, literally, can they do it?
Now, if you're not selling something,
keep this in mind, or you're doing
a free service or something like that,
well, your currency is probably
going to be e-mail addresses.
So the question then becomes, can
they submit their e-mail address to you
and is it not too arduous of a process to do that?
Now, there's no excuse to not add payments
nowadays, there's so many options for doing this.
People don't want to mail you cash, and they don't
want to mail you checks or pay you in Bitcoin.
They want the normal options for payment.
In the next lecture, we're going to demo adding a Stripe
payment account just so I can show you how dead
simple it is, you can do it in five minutes.
Now, if you guys are on a platform like Shopify, or
Wordpress, or Magento, or Drupal, or any of those big
bloated things, you might just have to Google it.
They all support payments.
You just need to figure out how exactly to do it, you
just type in the name of your platform + "payments"
or "credit cards" and they almost always will have a guide.
And if all else fails, for some reason you cannot do
that, if you are in the U.S., Canada, and Europe, at
least, this is a fallback technique you can do. Go to
Square.com - have you ever seen Square before? - they are
a credit card processing company that's kind of
democratized the process for everyone. Sign up for an
account, you will get approved roughly in 24
hours, unless you're a terrorist organization,
and then what you can do is download the application.
Then, at that point, you can collect credit cards
by manually typing them in.
So if someone wants to pay you, just set it up such
that they input the information, it looks encrypted,
it gets sent to you, and you can do it manually until
later you can add a payment source or you can call
them and do it over the phone.
True story. For the first two years of running
Sprintkick, the web studio that I run,
that's actually how I collected payments. I called
clients and said "This is how much is due.
Please just read me your credit card. "People are
actually fine with that, because they assume a phone
is actually more secure than a credit card page.
It's not true at all.
Phones are much less secure
than a credit card page, but whatever.
That's what people think.
So check your stuff over.
If an idiot were to come to your page, can they figure
out, one, what you do, why they should buy it, and
can they figure out how to pay you?
If you don't meet those three, please fix it.
Otherwise, the rest of this course
is going to be worthless for you.
Now, in the next lecture, I'm going to demo this, I'm
going to show you a really screwed up page, and I'm
going to show you how you can very quickly and
easily convert it to one that is actually, that actually
passes that one, two, three audit test.
All right, guys, see you in the next lecture.